Merc Release 2.0 Beta
Sunday 04 April 1993

Furey	mec@garnet.berkeley.edu
Hatchet	mitchell@ocf.berkeley.edu
Kahn	michael@web.berkeley.edu



=== Introduction

Merc Diku Mud is a Diku Mud with many enhancements and contributions.  See our
'contrib.txt' and 'help merc' for acknowledgements.  Send us a contribution,
and you'll be in there too!

Enjoy our mud.  May your visit here be ... Mercenary.

This release of Merc is beta software, and is meant for testing, not production
use.  See 'beta.txt' for details.

The next release of Merc will be the full 2.0 production release.  We will
release this on or before June 1, 1993.



=== Copyright and License

Diku Mud is copyright (C) 1990, 1991 by Sebastian Hammer, Michael Seifert,
Hans Henrik St{rfeldt, Tom Madsen, and Katja Nyboe.  Their license agreement
is in the file 'license.doc'.

Merc Diku Mud is a derivative of the original Diku Mud and is subject to their
copyright and license agreement.  Merc Diku Mud contains substantial
enhancements to Diku Mud.  These enhancements are copyright 1992, 1993 by
Michael Chastain, Michael Quan, and Mitchell Tse.  Our license agreement is in
'license.txt'.

The license terms boil down to this: the people who wrote this mud want due
credit for their work.



=== Contents of the Release

	doc	Documentation
	log	Game logs (initially empty).
	player	Player files (initially almost empty).
	src	All the source and area files.




=== How to Install

First, group with your highest level Unix guru, and have him or her tank.
Merc is easier to install than other muds, but every site is different.

(1) Get the release Merc_20.tar.Z or Merc_20.tar.z from one of these fine ftp
    sites:

	ferkel.ucsb.edu
	ftp.math.okstate.edu
	ucbvax.berkeley.edu
    
(2) Unpack the release.  The command to use depends on whether you got a
    .Z or .z file:

	uncompress < Merc_20.tar.Z | tar xvf -

    or:

	gzip -d Merc_20.tar.z | tar xvf -

(3) Go into the 'src' directory.  Choose the Makefile for your operating
    system and copy it into 'Makefile':

	Makefile	Most machines with 'gcc'
	Makefile.aix	AIX
	Makefile.hp	Hpux
	Makefile.next	NeXT
	Makefile.tra	Traditional C (see 'trad.txt')

(4) Run 'make' with the following options:

	make -k >&! make.out

    This will take 10 minutes to 60 minutes, depending on the speed of your
    computer.

    If you encounter errors with 'make', send us your 'make.out' file:

	mail -s make.out mec@garnet.berkeley.edu < make.out

    We will help you get Merc running, but obviously we can't guarantee
    Merc will run on any particular machine.

(5) Start the game:

	startup &
	telnet localhost 4000
	
(6) Drop us some e-mail at one of these addresses.  Tell us how you
    like it!

	mec@garnet.berkeley.edu
	michael@web.berkeley.edu
	mitchell@ocf.berkeley.edu

(7) Of course you're going to change the title screen, help files, and so on.
    Don't just erase globally erase the 'Merc' references, ok?  You wouldn't
    like it if we did that to your work, so don't do it to ours.



=== Support

First, read the documentation in the 'doc' directory.  All of the documentation
files have been brought up-to-date to reflect the current code.

We have a mailing list, at 'merc-list@testeng.amdahl.com'.  Send mail to
'merc-request@testeng.amdahl.com' to join the list.

You can write to us directly at the e-mail addresses at the top of this
document.

When you write us, we need to know what kind of machine you're running on.  If
you can give us specific information about the problem, that helps too.

Specific information means: an adb or gdb stack trace (if you're reporting a
crash), or a syslog with the relevant commands logged.  The player files are
ascii files -- dump them into your mail message too.

If your e-mail is too vague, we're likely to bounce it back.  There are three
of us and dozens of you -- we simply can't engage in long-distance debugging,
on unknown platforms, with the added factor of more code that you've dropped in
since the release.
